>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 27:
>> Stewart: ASSESSING THE IMPACT
OF THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
VOTE RECOUNT EFFORTS IN
WISCONSIN AND ELSEWHERE.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
SINGER-SONGWRITER NORAH JONES
TALKS WITH THE NEWSHOUR'S
JEFFREY BROWN ABOUT HER NEW
WORK.
>> Reporter: EVERYTHING I SEE
ABOUT THIS NEW ALBUM SAYS,
"NORAH JONES IS RETURNING TO HER
JAZZ ROOTS."
DO YOU BUY THAT?
>> I FEEL LIKE I'M MOVING
FORWARD, AS I DO WITH EVERY
ALBUM.
I DON'T KNOW.
MUSIC, MAN, IT'S JUST MUSIC,
JUST LISTEN TO IT.
>> Stewart: NEXT ON "PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENT-ELECT
DONALD TRUMP AND HIS TOP
ADVISERS ARE LAMBASTING HILLARY
CLINTON AND THE DEMOCRATS FOR
PARTICIPATING IN A RECOUNT IN
WISCONSIN AND POSSIBLY TWO OTHER
STATES WHERE THE VOTE WAS CLOSE.
THE RESPONSE FOLLOWED THE
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE CLINTON
CAMPAIGN'S GENERAL COUNSEL
YESTERDAY THAT ALTHOUGH THE
CAMPAIGN HAS NO EVIDENCE OF FOUL
PLAY WITH ELECTRONIC VOTING
MACHINES IT WILL HAVE ATTORNEYS
PRESENT AT LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
SURROUNDING THE RECOUNTS
INITIATED BY GREEN PARTY
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE JILL
STEIN.
DR. STEIN SAYS SHE HAS RAISED
MORE THAN $6 MILLION TO PAY FOR
RECOUNTS IN WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN,
AND PENNSYLVANIA.
FROM HIS HOME IN WEST PALM
BEACH, FLORIDA, MR. TRUMP
TOOK TO TWITTER TO CALL THE
RECOUNT EFFORT "A SCAM" DESIGNED
TO FILL GREEN PARTY COFFERS AND
TO LABEL THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY
"BADLY DEFEATED AND
DEMORALIZED."
HE CRITICIZED DEMOCRATS FOR NOT
ACCEPTING THE ELECTION RESULTS;
A POINT EMPHASIZED IN INTERVIEWS
TODAY BY HIS ADVISOR AND
CAMPAIGN MANAGER, KELLYANNE
CONWAY.
>> THEIR PRESIDENT, BARACK
OBAMA, IS GOING TO BE IN OFFICE
EIGHT MORE WEEKS, AND THEY HAVE
TO DECIDE IF THEY'RE GOING TO
INTERFERE WITH THE TRANSITION,
TRANSFER OF POWER TO PRESIDENT-
ELECT TRUMP AND VICE PRESIDENT-
ELECT MIKE PENCE, OR IF THEY'RE
GOING TO BE A BUNCH OF CRYBABIES
AND SORE LOSERS ABOUT AN
ELECTION THEY CAN'T TURN AROUND.
>> Stewart: INCOMING WHITE HOUSE
CHIEF OF STAFF REINCE PRIEBUS IS
FROM THE FIRST STATE SCHEDULED
TO CONDUCT A RECOUNT, WISCONSIN.
>> IT IS A TOTAL AND COMPLETE
HYPOCRITICAL JOKE THAT THE
PEOPLE THAT WERE NERVOUS ABOUT
PRESIDENT-ELECT TRUMP NOT
CONCEDING ARE THE PEOPLE
CONDUCTING RECOUNTS IN STATES
WHERE WE'VE WON BY OVER 68,000
VOTES.
>> Stewart: NOTING HILLARY
CLINTON'S NOVEMBER 9 CONCESSION
SPEECH AND PHONE CALL TO HIM,
MISTER TRUMP PREDICTED: "NOTHING
WILL CHANGE."
JOINING ME NOW FOR MORE ANALYSIS
OF THE RECOUNT EFFORTS BREWING
IN THREE STATES IS NPR POLITICAL
REPORTER TAMARA KEITH.
JILL STEIN'S WEBSITE SAYS THE
RECOUNT IS NEEDED IN, QUOTE,
"THREE STATES WHERE THERE IS A
SIGNIFICANT NEED TO VERIFY
MACHINE COUNTED VOTE TOTALS,"
END QUOTE.
SO THERE ARE TWO NOTABLE THINGS
ABOUT THAT SENTENCE.
SIGNIFICANT IS UNDERLINED AND
THE MAN COUNTED VOTES.
WHAT IS THE SUBTEXT HERE?
>> SHE IS DEFINITELY OUT TO
PROVE WHETHER OR NOT THERE WAS
ANY TAMPERING WITH THE VOTE
PROCESS.
THE CLINTON CAMPAIGN
HAS LOOKED INTO THESE THINGS AS
WELL AND THEY CONCLUDED THAT
THERE WASN'T ANY SORT OF WIDE
SPREAD EVIDENCE OF TAMPERING OR
HACKING OR RIGGING OR ANY OF
THOSE WORDS THAT WERE THROWN
AROUND LEADING INTO THE
ELECTION. THE CLINTON CAMPAIGN'S
CONCLUSION WAS THAT THEY WOULD
NOT ASK FOR A RECOUNT.
JILL STEIN THOUGH FELT THAT A
RECOUNT WAS IN ORDER TO VERIFY
THE INTEGRITY OF THE VOTING
PROCESS AND THE VOTING SYSTEM.
>> AS YOU MENTIONED THE CLINTON
CAMPAIGN'S GENERAL COUNSEL WROTE
IN A LENGTHY POST THAT THEY HAVE
DONE THEIR OWN FORENSIC
ANALYSIS AND STAND BY THE
RESULTS BUT ARE SENDING A LAWYER
TO BE PRESENT.
>> I THINK ANY REASONABLE
CAMPAIGN WOULD DO THAT IT IS
POSSIBLE DONALD TRUMP'S CAMPAIGN
WILL SEND LAWYERS AS WELL.
BECAUSE IF THERE IS A RECOUNT
HAPPENING AND YOUR CANDIDATE IS
ON THE BALLOT THEN IT MAKES
SENSE FOR THE CAMPAIGN IF THEY
HAVE THE FUNDS TO DO IT TO SEND
LAWYERS TO BE IN COURT FOR
HEARINGS THAT MAY RELATE TO HOW
VOTES ARE RECOUNTED OR
PROCESSED.
>> CAN YOU WALK US THROUGH THE
NUTS AND BOLTS PROCESS OF THIS,
WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN WISCONSIN,
POSSIBLY MICHIGAN AND
PENNSYLVANIA?
>> YEAH, SO WHAT IS HAPPENING
RIGHT NOW IS THE ELECTIONS
COMMISSION IN WISCONSIN HAS
REACHED OUT TO-- THERE ARE
HUNDREDS OF LOCAL MUNICIPAL AND
COUNTY ELECTIONS OFFICIALS,
REGISTRARS WHO ARE BEING ASKED
TO CALCULATE THE COST FOR THIS
FOR THIS BECAUSE IT IS GOING TO
BE AN EXPENSIVE PROCESS.
THEN WHEN THE COST IS FIGURED
OUT, BOTH JILL STEIN AND ROCKY
DE LA FUENTE WHO IS ANOTHER
INDEPENDENT CANDIDATE WITHOUT
ALSO FILED FOR A RECOUNT, THEY
WILL BE ASKED TO SPLIT THE COST
IF THEY HAVE THE FUNDS WHICH
THEY SAY THEY DO, TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH PAYING FOR THE
RECOUNT, THEN THE RECOUNT WOULD
BEGIN.
IT'S LIKELY TO TAKE SEVERAL
WEEKS AND THE ELECTIONS
COMMISSION IN WISCONSIN HAS
ALREADY TOLD LOCAL OFFICIALS
THAT THEY SHOULD BE PREPARED TO
WORK NIGHTS AND
WEEKEND-- WEEKENDS TO GET THIS
DONE.
>> THERE COULD BE LEGAL
HEARINGS, DISPUTES ABOUT EXACTLY
HOW THE COUNTING TAKES PLACE AND
THAT WILL ALL PLAY OUT IN THE
COMING DAYS.
AND THEN THERE ARE DEADLINES
COMING UP IN MICHIGAN AND
PENNSYLVANIA.
STEIN SAID SHE WILL FILE IN
THOSE STATES AS WELL.
SHE EVEN TWEETED THAT SHE WOULD
LOOK TO FILE FOR RECOUNT
PHYSICIAN THE FUNDS ARE
AVAILABLE IN ANY STATE THAT HAS
A DEADLINE LEFT TO COME.
SO THIS COULD BE A BIG THING BUT
HERE'S THE IMPORTANT PART.
IT IS HIGHLY UNLIKELY TO CHANGE
THE RESULTS OF THE ELECTION.
>> SO WHAT DOES JILL STEIN GET
OUT OF ALL OF THIS?
>> WELL, JILL STEIN IS DRAWING
ATTENTION TO THE ELECTION
PROCESS, TO THE GREEN PARTY.
THE GREEN PARTY AND JILL STEIN
NOW HAS A MUCH BIGGER LIST OF
GIVEN MONEY
TO THIS EFFORT.
WHAT THEY WOULD DO WITH IS
UNCLEAR BUT LISTS ARE VERY
VALUABLE IN POLITICS.
>> PLA KEITH
>> Stewart: THE STREETS OF
HAVANA WERE NEARLY EMPTY TODAY,
AS CUBANS CAME TO GRIPS WITH THE
DEATH OF FIDEL CASTRO, THE MAN
WHO RULED FOR ALMOST HALF A
CENTURY, UNTIL HIS BROTHER,
RAUL, TOOK OVER IN 2008.
THIS WAS THE SECOND OF NINE DAYS
OF NATIONAL MOURNING FOLLOWING
CASTRO'S DEATH FRIDAY AT THE AGE
OF 90.
THOUSANDS ARE EXPECTED TO PAY
THEIR RESPECTS TOMORROW IN
REVOLUTION PLAZA WHERE A MASS
PUBLIC CEREMONY IS PLANNED FOR
TUESDAY.
A MAN WHO MADE HEADLINES AS A
YOUNG BOY WHEN HE WAS RETURNED
TO CUBA AFTER A LONG AND
POLITICAL FIGHT, NOW 22 ELIAN
GONZALEZ, APPEARED ON CUBAN
STATE TELEVISION TODAY TO SAY
CASTRO WAS A FRIEND TO HIS
FAMILY.
>> HE TAUGHT US TO FLY.
HE TAUGHT US TO DREAM.
AND NOW IT IS UP TO US ALONE,
NOW WITHOUT HIM BY OUR SIDE, IT
IS UP TO US TO OPEN A PATH
FORWARD.
IT IS UP TO US TO EXECUTE THAT
CONCEPT OF REVOLUTION.
>> Stewart: IN 1999, THE THEN
FIVE-YEAR OLD ELIAN WAS AT THE
CENTER OF A CUSTODY BATTLE WHEN
HE AND HIS MOTHER FLED TO
FLORIDA FROM CUBA BY BOAT.
HIS MOTHER DIED IN THE ATTEMPT,
AND AFTER A LENGTHY LEGAL BATTLE
IN 2000 A U.S. FEDERAL COURT
ORDERED HIM TO BE SENT BACK TO
HIS FATHER IN CUBA.
ISRAEL ENGAGED IN A RARE
MILITARY CLASH WITH ISIS-
AFFILIATED MILITANTS TODAY,
INSIDE SYRIA.
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU SAYS ISRAELI WARPLANES
KILLED FOUR MILITANTS AFTER THE
MILITANTS FIRED ON AN ISRAELI
SOLDIERS PATROLLING THE GOLAN
HEIGHTS AREA NEAR ISRAEL'S
NORTHERN BORDER WITH SYRIA.
IN SYRIA'S SIX YEAR CIVIL WAR
GOVERNMENT TROOPS SAID TODAY
THEY'VE GAINED CONTROL OF A
SECOND NEIGHBORHOOD IN AS MANY
DAYS IN THE REBEL-HELD EASTERN
HALF OF BESIEGED ALEPPO.
HUNDREDS OF RESIDENTS FLED THE
NEIGHBORHOOD, WITH REBELS SAYING
THEY FEAR THE GOVERNMENT FORCES,
BACKED BY RUSSIAN AIR POWER, ARE
TRYING TO CUT THEIR SECTOR IN
HALF.
THE UNITED NATIONS SAYS HALF A
MILLION CHILDREN ARE TRAPPED
EITHER IN ALEPPO OR OTHER
BESIEGED CITIES, AND THEY ARE
ALMOST COMPLETELY CUT OFF FROM
HUMANITARIAN AID.
IN FRANCE TODAY, TWO FORMER
PRIME MINISTERS COMPETED IN A
RUNOFF TO BECOME THE
CONSERVATIVE NOMINEE FOR
PRESIDENT IN NEXT YEAR'S
ELECTION.
WITH ALMOST ALL THE VOTE
COUNTED, FRANCOIS FILLON HAS
EASILY BEATEN RIVAL ALAIN JUPPE,
WHO CONCEDED DEFEAT TONIGHT.
FILLON WANTS TO REDUCE
IMMIGRATION TO A MINIMUM, SLASH
PUBLIC SECTOR SPENDING, RAISE
THE RETIREMENT AGE FROM 62 TO
65, AND EXTEND THE STANDARD 35-
HOUR WORK WEEK.
MARINE LE PEN, OF THE FAR RIGHT
NATIONAL FRONT PARTY, IS ALSO
RUNNING.
BUT INCUMBENT PRESIDENT FRANCOIS
HOLLANDE HAS NOT SAID YET IF
HE'LL SEEK A SECOND FIVE-YEAR
TERM ON THE SOCIALIST TICKET.
>> NEW YORK STATE COULD SOON
EXPAND MEDICAID COVERAGE FOR
TREATMENTS SPECIFIC TO
TRANSGENDER YOUTH UNDER 18.
READ MORE AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Stewart: JUST BACK FROM
EUROPE, THIS WEEK SINGER-
SONGWRITER NORAH JONES BEGINS
THE EAST COAST LEG OF A TOUR IN
SUPPORT OF HER LATEST ALBUM.
THE NEW SONGS FIND HER ONCE
AGAIN AT THE PIANO, REMINISCENT
OF THE WORK THAT FIRST
PROPELLED HER TO STARDOM IN
2002.
BUT THIS TIME AROUND, JONES ADDS
SOME JAZZ TO THE MIX.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
THE NEWSHOUR'S JEFFREY BROWN HAS
THIS PROFILE.
>> ♪ IT'S A TRAGEDY.
♪ IT'S A TRAGEDY.
>> Reporter: NORAH JONES HAS
SAID WHEN SHE DECIDED TO BE A
JAZZ SINGER, SHE KNEW SHE'D
NEVER BE FAMOUS.
WELL, SHE GOT THAT WRONG.
WHATEVER YOU CALL HER, SHE'S
BEEN ONE OF THE BEST-SELLING
AMERICAN RECORDING ARTISTS OF
THE PAST 15 YEARS.
>> ♪ HE WAS ONLY 25, HAD AN OPEN
♪ HEART AND TENDER MIND
>> Reporter: HER BLOCKBUSTER
2002 DEBUT ALBUM, "COME AWAY
WITH ME," HAS SOLD 26 MILLION
COPIES WORLDWIDE, AND HER TOTAL
ALBUM SALES ARE NEARING 50
MILLION.
JONES' NEW ALBUM, "DAY BREAKS,"
REPRISES THE STYLE AND
ATMOSPHERE OF HER FIRST RECORD,
BUT MORE THAN ANYTHING HER VOICE
REMAINS HER SIGNATURE SOUND.
>> ♪ THE BABIES AND A PATIENT
♪ WIFE, THEY JUST WEREN'T ENOUGH
♪ TO KEEP HIM HIGH.
♪ SO HE GAVE THEM UP JUST TO
♪ FILL HIS CUP
>> Reporter: EVERYTHING I SEE
ABOUT THIS NEW ALBUM, INCLUDING
IN THE PUBLICITY, IT SAYS,"
NORAH JONES IS FINDING HER WAY,
RETURNING TO HER JAZZ ROOTS."
DO YOU BUY THAT, OR WHAT DO YOU
THINK IS GOING ON HERE?
>> I MEAN I DEFINITELY THINK
IT'S ACCURATE.
THAT'S NOT HOW I'D DESCRIBE WHAT
I'M DOING, BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE
I'M MOVING FORWARD, AS I DO WITH
EVERY ALBUM.
I'VE DEFINITELY BEEN PLAYING
MORE PIANO AGAIN, AND I DON'T
KNOW.
MUSIC, MAN, IT'S JUST MUSIC,
JUST LISTEN TO IT.
♪ ♪
>> Reporter: THE PULSE OF "DAY
BREAKS" IS SET BY HER PIANO, THE
INSTRUMENT SHE STUDIED GROWING
UP IN DALLAS, TEXAS.
HER FATHER, INDIAN MUSICIAN RAVI
SHANKAR, WAS LARGELY ABSENT
DURING HER CHILDHOOD.
JONES CREDITS HER MOTHER, SUE
JONES, A CONCERT PROMOTER, FOR
EXPOSING HER TO THE MUSIC THAT
SET HER ON HER WAY.
WHAT ARE YOUR MUSICAL ROOTS WHEN
YOU LOOK BACK?
>> DEFINITELY JAZZ.
BILL EVANS AND BILLIE HOLIDAY
AND MILES DAVIS.
STUFF I STILL LOVE TO LISTEN TO
TODAY.
YOU KNOW, I WAS PLAYING PIANO IN
A CHURCH CHOIR, AND I KIND OF
DIDN'T WANT TO PRACTICE SCALES.
MY MOM TOOK ME TO THIS BIG BAND
CONCERT, AND THEN SHE FOUND ME
THIS JAZZ PIANO TEACHER, AND
THEN WE GOT ALL THESE OLD
RECORDINGS, AND I FELL IN LOVE
WITH THIS MUSIC.
♪ I TRIED TO GET HIGH, BUT YOU
WANTED ME LOW.
♪ GOOD THINGS ARE HAPPENING, BUT
HAPPENING SLOW.
♪ IT'S SOME KIND OF MYSTERY FROM
LONG AGO. ♪
>> Reporter: THIS SONG,
"FLIPSIDE," IS ONE OF EIGHT
ORIGINALS JONES WROTE OR CO-
WROTE FOR HER NEW ALBUM.
♪
AND HOW DO YOU KNOW WHEN YOU'VE
SORT OF NAILED THE SONG?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
SOMETIMES YOU WANT TO TWEAK IT
AFTER YOU'VE RECORDED IT AND PUT
IT ON AN ALBUM SOMETIMES.
SONGS ARE KIND OF ALIVE, I
THINK; ONCE YOU FINISH WRITING
THEM, THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
THAT'S IT FOR THE SONG.
IT CAN HAVE ITS OWN LITTLE LIFE,
I THINK.
>> Reporter: THAT'S, OF COURSE,
ALSO PART OF PERFORMING, RIGHT?
DO YOU LIKE PERFORMING?
>> YEAH, I THINK PLAYING MUSIC
IS ONE OF MY GREAT JOYS IN LIFE.
I HAD SUCCESS EARLY ON WHERE I'M
ABLE TO TRY TO KEEP IT FUN, AND
I DON'T HAVE TO DO THINGS JUST
FOR THE SAKE OF MAKING A LIVING,
WHICH A LOT OF MY MUSICIAN
FRIENDS DON'T HAVE THAT LUXURY
OF COURSE.
BUT I REMEMBER EARLY ON, FOR
INSTANCE, HAVING TO PLAY WEDDING
GIGS, THAT I HATED PLAYING THE
MUSIC.
NOW I DON'T HAVE TO PLAY MUSIC
THAT I DON'T LIKE.
I ONLY GET TO DO WHAT I ENJOY,
SO THAT'S PRETTY LUCKY.
>> Reporter: LUCKY THAT WHEN SHE
WAS 24, SHE ESSENTIALLY SWEPT
THE 2003 GRAMMY AWARDS, WINNING
BEST NEW ARTIST, RECORD OF THE
YEAR FOR "DON'T KNOW WHY," AND
BEATING THE LIKES OF BRUCE
SPRINGSTEEN FOR ALBUM OF THE
YEAR.
SUDDENLY YOU WERE AN OVERNIGHT
STAR, RIGHT?
DOES THAT, IN RETROSPECT, WAS
THAT, WAS IT TOO MUCH TO HAPPEN
TOO SOON FOR YOU?
>> I THINK I HANDLED IT PRETTY
WELL.
THERE WAS A LOT OF POINTS DURING
THOSE COUPLE YEARS WHERE I WAS
PRETTY OVERWHELMED BY IT FOR
SURE.
IT'S FUNNY HOW YOU REALIZE
WHAT'S IMPORTANT, AND IT'S NOT
FAME AND MONEY, EVEN THOUGH IT
CAN BE REALLY NICE.
IT'S HAPPINESS AND WHATEVER IT
TAKES TO MAKE YOU FEEL HAPPY.
>> Reporter: JONES WAS AT EASE
AS WE TALKED RECENTLY AT THE
BROOKLYN CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC,
NOT FAR FROM WHERE SHE LIVES NOW
WITH A FAMILY OF HER OWN.
IN RECENT YEARS, MARRIAGE AND
MOTHERHOOD, RIGHT, NO DOUBT
CHANGES YOUR LIFE.
DOES IT CHANGE YOUR MUSIC?
>> I DON'T NECESSARILY THINK
THAT MY MUSIC HAS-- I DON'T GO
ABOUT PLAYING MUSIC DIFFERENTLY.
IT CHANGES MY SLEEPING SCHEDULE
AND MY DRINKING HABITS, THAT'S
WHAT I LIKE TO SAY.
♪ NO, I WON'T GO FOR ANY OF
THOSE THINGS.
>> Reporter: TWO YEARS AGO,
JONES PLAYED WITH THE JAZZ
MUSICIANS WHO ENDED UP BACKING
HER ON "DAY BREAKS" AT A
WASHINGTON CONCERT CELEBRATING
THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY OF HER
LABEL, BLUE NOTE RECORDS.
THE PERFORMANCE, RECORDED BY
NPR, INCLUDED SAXOPHONIST WAYNE
SHORTER.
>> HE'S A LEGEND.
HE DOESN'T PLAY NOTES, HE JUST
PLAYS WHAT HE'S FEELING.
IF SOMETHING'S NOT MOVING HIM,
HE DOESN'T COME IN YET.
I THINK PLAYING WITH PEOPLE LIKE
THAT IS INCREDIBLE, PEOPLE WHO
JUST KIND OF BREATHE MUSIC.
>> Reporter: THIS RECENT
PERFORMANCE OF NEW SONGS WAS
TAPED IN SANTA MONICA,
CALIFORNIA, BY THE KCRW PROGRAM"
MORNING BECOMES ECLECTIC."
>> ♪ DAY BREAKS IN YOUR HEAD.
♪ AND YOU'RE FINALLY ALONE.
♪ I'LL FIND A WAY TO MAKE IT
THROUGH.
♪ BUT IT KEEPS RAINING IN YOUR
HEART ♪
>> Reporter: JONES SAYS AFTER
HER SMASH HIT BREAKTHROUGH, BLUE
NOTE NEVER PRESSURED HER TO PUT
OUT THE SAME KIND OF ALBUM OVER
AND OVER.
AND SHE DIDN'T.
SHE WROTE MORE SONGS WITH
GUITARS, SHE MADE TWO ALBUMS
WITH HER COUNTRY BAND, "THE
LITTLE WILLIES," AND SANG AN
ALBUM OF EVERLY BROTHERS DUETS
WITH GREEN DAY FRONTMAN
BILLIE JOE ARMSTRONG.
>> ♪ MAYBE YOU SHOULD GO AWAY.
♪ IF THE LOVE WE HAVE IS MEANT
TO STAY. ♪
>> Reporter: SHE SAYS HER
APPROACH HAS NOT CHANGED SINCE
THAT DAY IN 2000 WHEN SHE FIRST
MET BLUE NOTE RECORDS PRESIDENT
BRUCE LUNDVALL WITH A DEMO TAPE
OF THREE SONGS: TWO JAZZ
STANDARDS AND ONE ORIGINAL POP
SONG.
>> AND BRUCE LISTENS TO THE DEMO
RIGHT IN FRONT OF ME; AND HE
SAYS, "SO, THIS SONG IS
DIFFERENT FROM THE FIRST TWO.
SO WHAT DO YOU WANT TO DO, BE A
JAZZ SINGER OR POP SINGER?"
AND I WAS LIKE, UH, I'M AT BLUE
NOTE RECORDS, HE MIGHT GIVE ME A
RECORD DEAL, "JAZZ SINGER."
♪ RAINING IN MY HEART.
>> Reporter: AFTER COMPLETING
HER "DAY BREAKS" SHOWS IN EARLY
DECEMBER, JONES HAS CONCERT
DATES BOOKED NEXT SPRING
THROUGHOUT THE U.S. AND JAPAN.
>> I'M SUPER-FORTUNATE TO HAVE
ANY FANS STILL.
IT'S BEEN ALMOST 15 YEARS SINCE
MY FIRST ALBUM.
I'M HAPPY.
I FEEL GOOD ABOUT MUSIC.
MUSIC IS FUN.
IT SHOULD BE FUN.
AND THAT'S THE KEY, I THINK.
KEEP IT AS THE THING YOU LOVE.
IT'S NOT LIKE ONCE YOU ACHIEVE
SUCCESS, YOU'RE DONE, YOU KNOW?
IT'S LIKE, STILL ENJOY DOING
WHAT YOU'RE DOING, THAT'S THE
KEY FOR ME.
♪
>> Stewart: THIS WEEK A NEW
NATIONWIDE RULE ON OVERTIME PAY
WAS SUPPOSED TO TAKE EFFECT, BUT
LAST WEEK, IN RESPONSE TO A
LEGAL CHALLENGE, A FEDERAL JUDGE
IN TEXAS ISSUED A PRELIMINARY
INJUNCTION BLOCKING THE CHANGE.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION SOUGHT
TO RAISE THE SALARY CAP FOR
WORKERS ELIGIBLE FOR OVERTIME
PAY TO $47,500 A YEAR; ABOUT
DOUBLE THE CURRENT CAP.
THE RULE WOULD AFFECT FOUR
MILLION WORKERS, REQUIRING
EMPLOYERS TO PAY THEM TIME-AND-
A-HALF FOR EVERY HOUR EXCEEDING
40 HOURS IN A GIVEN WEEK.
AND COMPANY PAYROLL DEPARTMENTS
ARE ALREADY PREPARED FOR THE
CHANGE.
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS THE
RAMIFICATIONS OF THE RULE AND
ITS STATUS IS NPR BUSINESS
CORRESPONDENT YUKI NOGUCHI.
>> YOUR BACKGROUND.
WHY DID THE LABOR DEPARTMENT
ISSUE THIS RULE AND WHY THAT
NUMBER?
>> THEIR ARGUMENT WAS THAT THEY
WERE TRYING TO MODERNIZE THE
RULES AND INCREASE THE SALARY TO
A LEVEL THAT WOULD BE RELEVANT,
THAT IS, WHAT MOST PEOPLE MIGHT
CONSIDER WHITE COLLAR JOBS.
>> HOW DID THIS MOVE OR THE
ATTEMPT FOR THIS MOVE PLAY INTO
THE OVERALL DISCUSSION ABOUT
LIVING WAGE AND RAISING THE
FEDERAL MINIMUM WAGE WHICH HAS
ALSO NOT BEEN CHANGED IN MANY
YEARS?
>> I THINK ARGUMENT THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION WAS TRYING
TO MAKE WAS TRYING TO ADDRESS
THIS ISSUE OF FORCING EMPLOYERS
TO EITHER PAY OVERTIME OR TO
RAISE THE SALARIES OF WORKERS
WHO ARE MAKING JUST OVER $23,000
A YEAR TO A MUCH HIGHER LEVEL IN
ORDER TO EXEMPT THEM FROM THE
OVERTIME RULES.
THIS WOULD AFFECT RETAIL WORKERS
STORE MANAGERS, RESTAURANT
MANAGERS AND A LOT OF NONPROFITS
TOO, WHERE SALARY LEVELS MIGHT
BE LOWER BUT THEY MIGHT BE
REQUIRED TO WORK ODD HOURS OR
EXTRA HOURS.
>> SO THIS JUDGE IN TEXAS I
BELIEVE HIS NAME IS AMOS MAZANT
III, NEVADA'S ATTORNEY GENERALS,
ONE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
SUING TO STOP THIS, SAID THEY
SENT IT TO TEXAS BECAUSE THEY
HAD A FAST DOCKET.
WHAT IS THE ISSUE HERE?
>> RULES WOULD TAKE EFFECT
DECEMBER 1 AND REVERSING THAT
WOULD BE DIFFICULT.
THE FACT IS ALLISON THAT A LOT
OF BUSINESSES WERE ALREADY
PREPARING FOR THIS TO TAKE
PLACE.
DECEMBER 1 HAPPENS TO FALL MID
WEEK AND MOST PAYROLL SYSTEMS AS
YOU KNOW CLOSE AT THE END OF THE
WEEK.
SO AS A PRACTICAL MATTER THERE
ARE PROBABLY MANY, MANY
EMPLOYERS THAT HAVE ALREADY
INSTITUTED CHANGES, THAT THEY
WILL EITHER HAVE TO CHOOSE TO
UNWIND OR JUST KEEP IN PLACE.
>> Stewart: THERE WERE TWO
HEADLINES THAT REALLY SPOKE TO
HOW PEOPLE WERE RECEIVING THIS
INFORMATION.
ONE WAS FROM AN IDAHO PAPER THAT
SAID YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GET
THAT PAY RAISE YOU EXPECTED AND
ONE OF THE BUSINESS NEWS CABLE
NEWS NETWORK IT SAID SMALL
BUSINESSES RECEIVE A REPRIEVE.
ARE BOTH TRUE?
>> I THINK BOTH ARE TRUE, IT
MIGHT BE DISAPPOINTING NEWS FOR
WORKERS.
I DON'T THINK IT'S TRUE THAT ALL
EMPLOYERS WILL CHOOSE TO UNWIND
ANY CHANGES THAT THEY MAY HAVE
MADE.
BECAUSE WE ARE IN A RELATIVELY
LOW UNEMPLOYMENT SITUATION.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT EMPLOYERS
HAVING INCREASING PROBLEMS
ATTRACTING AND RETAINING
TALENTS.
YOU KNOW, IT SENDS A VERY
POTENTIALLY NEGATIVE SIGNAL TO
WORKERS WHO MIGHT HAVE BENEFITED
FROM THESE CHANGES.
BUT THERE ARE ALSO WORKERS WHO
POLITE HAVE BEEN BUMPED DOWN
FROM SALARIED TO HOURLY, AND
PERHAPS, IF THE EMPLOYER DECIDES
THAT, FOR THE MORALE OF THE
COMPANY IT WOULD BE BETTER TO
UNWIND THE RULE THAT DOES GIVE
THEM THE FLEXIBILITY TO DO THAT.
>> Stewart: YUKI NOGUCHI FROM
NPR, THANK YOU FOR SHARING YOUR
REPORTING.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Stewart: POLICE IN NEW
ORLEANS SAY A DISPUTE BETWEEN
TWO MEN LED TO TEN PEOPLE BEING
SHOT EARLY THIS MORNING IN
THE TOURIST HEAVY FRENCH
QUARTER.
POLICE SAY THE MEN HAD AIMED AT
EACH OTHER BUT INSTEAD STRUCK
EIGHT OTHER MEN AND TWO WOMEN.
THE GUNFIRE AT 1:30 A.M. SENT
PANICKED BYSTANDERS RUNNING
THROUGH THE STREETS.
ONE MAN DIED FROM GUNSHOT WOUNDS
AND THE MEN THOUGHT TO BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SHOOTINGS
REMAIN AT LARGE.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NewsHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M ALISON STEWART, GOOD NIGHT.